# prophet-challenge
This repo involves one working as a growth analyst at Mercado Libre, a popular e-commerce site in Latin America. We're analyizing financial and user data to optimize company growth. We'll see if the search traffic predictions can help determine successful stock trades. By creating a DataFrame from the search data, we're able to analyze patterns and trends. We can use properties such as `loc` to identify certain parts of the DataFrame such as the trends in May. Methods such as `sum()` and `groupby` allow us to compare values such as the sum of search traffic in May 2020 compared to the median search for all months. The DataFrame shows May having a greater average than the median. By accessing the `index` of our DataFrame, we can use `.isocalendar()`, `hour`, `day`, `week`, and `groupby` to use these different measurements of time and identify peak search times. We also look at patterns and trends in the stocks DataFrame. By using `concat` we can combine the trends and stocks DataFrames to place columns side by side for analysis. In this case, looking at search trends and closing prices, and using `plot()` to create visualizations over time. There was a market disruption in 2020 and the graphs show an initial shock and bounce back from the event. Overall, there were weak correlations involved with search trends and stock volatility, as well as search trends and stock price returns. The Prophet forecasting model allows us to look ahead and use our historical data to make predictions and allows us to see which time of day is most popular (midnight), day (Tuesday), and a low point of search traffic is around mid October and January 1st. 


<b>Sources</b></br>
Module-08 - Various files for DataFrame methods and correct chaining
Module-08-Data-Predictions/Class-3/Activities/04-Stu_Interpreting_Forecasting_Results/Unsolved/interpreting_forecasting_results.ipynb - For Prophet model set up
Module-08-Data-Predictions/Class-2/Activities/03-Stu_Stock_Volatility_and_Google_Trends/Unsolved/stock_volatility_and_google_trends.ipynb - For `rolling(window=4).std()` code
Xpert Learning Assistant - Verifying correct use of methods such as `median()` and `sum()`
